_theme-particulate-systems/ConstitutiveModelingOfGranularSystems.md, before:

---
layout: theme-particulate-systems
title: "Constitutive modelling of granular systems"
image: /images/projects/sheared-granular-system.jpg
imageText: Shear flow DEM simulations of the elongated particles to investigate the characteristics of our newly developed kinetic energy-based constitutive models.
active: true
startyear: 2017
endyear:
---

The critical importance of understanding the flow of granular materials in countless natural and industrial processes, has resulted in significant interdisciplinary research efforts for several decades. Of such efforts, one of the most significant contributions to the understanding of dry granular flows was the discovery of a relationship referred to as the <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\mu(I)">
rheology. This phenomenological model relates the internal friction coefficient (i.e. the shear stress to confining pressure ratio <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\mu\equiv 
\tau/P">), to the dimensionless inertial number <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=I"> which quantifies how rapid the material is flowing locally. Despite the many successful applications of the <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\mu(I)"> rheology, it loses accuracy for several key aspects of dry granular flows including application to dilute cases, accounting for particles with a finite stiffness (or soft particles), nonlocal and grain shape effects which have been highlighted as causing significant deviations from classical <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\mu(I)"> models. Elucidated from this model, is the roll of the particle velocity fluctuations often described as granular temperature, <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=T">. Acknowledgement of the granular temperature for constitutive modelling efforts has now led to several recent remarkable proposals, mitigating many of the weaknesses of the traditional <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\mu(I)"> models.
In this work through Discrete Element Method (DEM) simulations we are working on the development of new constitutive models based on the kinetic energy to address the shortcomings of the classical <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\mu(I)"> rheology.

Commit message:

Added Nathan to Team, improved the particle theme.

_theme-particulate-systems/ConstitutiveModelingOfGranularSystems.md, after:

---
layout: theme-particulate-systems
title: "Constitutive modelling of granular systems"
image: /images/projects/sheared-granular-system.jpg
imageText: Shear flow DEM simulations of the elongated particles (rods and ellipsoids) to investigate the characteristics of our newly developed kinetic energy-based constitutive models.
active: true
startyear: 2017
endyear:
---

The critical importance of understanding the flow of granular materials in countless natural and industrial processes, has resulted in significant interdisciplinary research efforts for several decades. Of such efforts, one of the most significant contributions to the understanding of dry granular flows was the discovery of a relationship referred to as the <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\mu(I)">
rheology. This phenomenological model relates the internal friction coefficient (i.e. the shear stress to confining pressure ratio <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\mu\equiv 
\tau/P">), to the dimensionless inertial number <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=I"> which quantifies how rapid the material is flowing locally. Despite the many successful applications of the <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\mu(I)"> rheology, it loses accuracy for several key aspects of dry granular flows including application to dilute cases, accounting for particles with a finite stiffness (or soft particles), nonlocal and grain shape effects which have been highlighted as causing significant deviations from classical <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\mu(I)"> models. Elucidated from this model, is the roll of the particle velocity fluctuations often described as granular temperature, <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=T">. Acknowledgement of the granular temperature for constitutive modelling efforts has now led to several recent remarkable proposals, mitigating many of the weaknesses of the traditional <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\mu(I)"> models.
In this work through Discrete Element Method (DEM) simulations we are working on the development of new constitutive models based on the kinetic energy to address the shortcomings of the classical <img src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\mu(I)"> rheology. 

This work is being conducted by [Nathan](/team/nathan-berry/).
