---
layout: paper
title: "Enhanced nanoparticle rejection in aligned boron nitride nanotube membranes"
year: "2020"
shortref: "Casanova <i>et al.</i> <i>Nanoscale</i> 2020"
nickname: bnnt-nano-serena
journal: "Nanoscale"
volume: 12
issue: 41
pages: 21138-21145
authors: "Casanova S, Mistry S, Mazinani S, Borg MK, Chew JYM, Mattia D"
image: /images/papers/2020-07-09-bnnt-nano.png
fulltext: https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2020/nr/d0nr04058d#!divAbstract
doi: "10.1039/D0NR04058D" 
supplement: http://www.rsc.org/suppdata/d0/nr/d0nr04058d/d0nr04058d1.pdf
pdflink: 
github:
datashare: 
altmetric_id: 
category: paper
funder: EPSRC
tags: [experiments, md, nanotubes]
highlight: true
---

# Abstract 

The rejection of particles with different charges and sizes, ranging from a few Ångstroms to tens of nanometers,
is key to a wide range of industrial applications, from wastewater treatment to product purification
in biotech processes. Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have long held the promise to revolutionize filtration,
with orders of magnitude higher fluxes compared to commercial membranes. CNTs, however, can only
reject particles and ions wider than their internal diameter. In this work, the fabrication of aligned boron
nitride nanotube (BNNT) membranes capable of rejecting nanoparticles smaller than their internal diameter
is reported for the first time. This is due to a mechanism of charge-based rejection in addition to
the size-based one, enabled by the BNNTs surface structure and chemistry and elucidated here using
high fidelity molecular dynamics and Brownian dynamics simulations. This results in ∼40% higher rejection
of the same particles by BNNT membranes than CNT ones with comparable nanotube diameter.
Furthermore, since permeance is proportional to the square of the nanotubes’ diameter, using BNNT
membranes with ∼30% larger nanotube diameter than a CNT membrane with comparable rejection
would result in up to 70% higher permeance. These results open the way to the design of more effective
nanotube membranes, capable of high particle rejection and, at the same time, high water permeance.

